This report is a model analysis of how weather conditions influence the attenuation in a hybrid Radio Frequency/Free Space Optical (RF/FSO) communication channel. There are 25 predictors in the dataset for this report, such as absolute humidity, distance, particulate, rain intensity, temperature, visibility, and wind speed. After data pre-processing, a random forest is used as the main machine learning algorithm. Moreover, coarse-tuning and fine-tuning are applied to hyperparameter optimisation, and the final decision tree is calculated after the tuning process. Furthermore, two types of models are implemented using the Out-of-bag (OOB) information methodology. The specific models are separate models based on different SYNOPCodes, whilst the generic model is deduced by incorporating the SYNOPCode as the categorical variables. All the models demonstrate that the features selected under various weather conditions and channel attenuation are different and of different importance levels. The comparison of generic and specific models is based on Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and $R^2$. 
Regarding RF channel attenuation, the RMSE and $R^2$ improvement of the specific model over the generic model under different weather conditions are: for clear weather (RMSE: 0.094; $R^2$: -1.151\%), for dust storm (RMSE: -0.011; $R^2$: 0.803\%), for fog (RMSE: -0.121; $R^2$: 9.883\%), for drizzle (RMSE: -0.283; $R^2$: 0.955\%), for rain (RMSE: -0.068; $R^2$: 2.810\%), for snow (RMSE: -0.189; $R^2$: -2.162\%), and for showers (RMSE: 0.085; $R^2$: -7.517\%).
Regarding FSO channel attenuation, the RMSE and $R^2$ improvement of the specific model over the generic model under different weather conditions are: for clear weather (RMSE: -0.106; $R^2$: 1.708\%), for dust storm (RMSE: -0.773; $R^2$: 2.819\%), for fog (RMSE: -0.318; $R^2$: -1.173\%), for drizzle (RMSE: 0.144; $R^2$: 18.731\%), for rain (RMSE: -0.105; $R^2$: -38.420\%), for snow (RMSE: 0.877; $R^2$: 5.069\%), and for showers (RMSE: 0.009; $R^2$: 1.128\%).
Although there are several exceptions to model performance under foggy and snowy weather, the overall performance of generic models exceeds that of specific models. Therefore, the generic model is the final model selected in this report. The principle of the Markov chain, as well as the RMSE and $R^2$ of the final model, will be discussed. Furthermore, two hybrid models will be built to analyse if the two channels can compensate each other on attenuation, and the metrics are the Pearson Correlation Coefficient(PCC) and mutual information(MI). There is a strong correlation under dust storms with $\frac{I_{EO}}{H_{EO}} = 0.8$. Regarding RMSE and $R^2$, the generic model outperforms the hybrid for the FSO channel and is generally better for the RF channel; the detailed comparison is in Table \ref{tab:rmse_all} and \ref{tab:r2_all}.
